Hello. Hello. Hi, good morning. I hope I'm audible to all of you.
Just three or four have joined. I'm going to start the session. Let me share my screen.
Screen.
So please make sure is everything fine, screen is visible and voice is clear to all of you.
Let's start. So we have seen the recap of Numpy yesterday. Today we are going to discuss about the pandas. One more library here in Python that is important for machine learning.
So we are going to discuss about the pandas. I will show you few basic things and then how we can use it in machine learning. Then we will go for the matplotlib. These things we are going to discuss today.
Let's begin.
There we go.
Will openly.
Call up.
New notebook.
Here it is.
One does.
Recap.
Here I have put one text.
It is.
Andas.
Windows.
Is uh Python library?
Really.
It is used.
For data analysis.
And data manipulation.
The.
And use data from CSV Excel.
For us for a day with.
So here is.
To use the pandas we can import.
And ours.
As PD.
We have imported it.
We can create the data series.
Period.
Read.
News in pandas.
Oh, I will create.
We can write here. For example, we have the data is equal to. We have put here your data, let's say 12243648.
60.
Environment what we have right here.
Data Srij.
Is equal to PD dot C data and we have print the data state.
The here is you have the here the indexing here the value zero. We have 12124236. This one we have that.
We can give these indexes the name also, for example this one we have.
We can write here.
Data Series 2.
Is equal to.
Data.
Call Mark.
We have right here index.
Is equal to.
Let's see.
This one or student one?
Oh my.
Student.
Cool.
You can see here this is student 1235. You can give the index a name also if you want that you can see here the data series. Do it quickly up to this level.
Do it.
Then up to this level.
Now let's move to the data frame.
Data frame.
What do you think?
So how like the data frame? Let me create one DF.
Is equal to PD dot data frame data series to the earth.
We'll find out here the data of it. This is the data frame. Let me create a auto generated data frame.
DF is equal to PT dot data frame.
And here is NP dot random.
Yes.
For NP we have to import the numpy. Let me import here only import numpy as NP.
This is your data free. So here the indexing here is the 012345 this one we have created.
One data frame. We can create the other data frame as well. Let me show you. For example, we have the data.
Set like this one.
We have the values we can read out from the CSV and all. So here I'm writing the values for example name.
I have right here age.
I write here city.
And here it is.
PD dot data frame data set DL.
So we'll see here. This is your data.
Name is City.
So two data frames we have created. You can check.
Done all of you then up to this level.
See, we have uh.
See here.
We have created the data frame. I already told you we can read out the data from the CSV or Excel. Let me show you if you want to read out from the reading the from the CSV or Excel. So let me show you this one.
Then we will discuss how we will do the data clean and all. So here is the reading.
Data from.
Files.
So I'm writing first reading data from CSV.
So what I will do is I'm going to add here one CSV. We'll go here files. Here we'll go to this folder files folder.
Right click here upload.
And we will go to your folder only.
This is your IML evening.
The desktop holders.
Desktop. This is your folder and I think day #9 we have population by country. We update it.
We have the sex song.
You can see the properties.
This one is your Excel file.
This is 1 CSV file Netflix data. I have choose this one. It is in data and open. I put it here. If you don't have the data and one I can upload it. You can download from there.
OK, let me just upload it for you. I will go here. IML evening. I will put it here one folder.
New folder.
The number.
423.
There we have put it.
Both I am putting here.
You close it.
Day number 43.
I have put both the files over here.
So I will upload it on GitHub. You can download from there as well if you want open terminal.
Good. Add all, good.
Do.
What is 3?
Start.
With push.
We have pushed it. You can go here.
GitHub.com.
And you can download it from the GitHub.
You all know the retub link, right? You don't know. If you not remember, I will put in the chat also.
The branch is green. Nothing is to update. Let me just put one thing. Let me put this one as well here find.
So.
File.
Download.
DA foot P3 open save. So I have saved that one as well here.
Is it fresh? This one is here. Let me open in terminal.
Get.
Add all.
With commit hyphen name.
One does.
The recap.
With push.
So this is your link.
Then copy from here control C.
We can go to the ground.
And you can open it over here.
This is the link and from here you can download both this XRM and the Netflix data that we can use.
The number.
43 here is.
Yeah, I wanted it. Let me put this link in your chat.
I'll put the link in chat. You can download from here and upload over here.
Do it and upload here Netflix data dot CSV. Then we will read out and discuss other stuff. Do up to this level quickly.
Done. Now let's read out from this file. What we'll do here, we will create the data frame DF and we will give the name to this data frame is Netflix.
Netflix is equal to PD dot read CSV. This one this path you can copy, copy the path and you can paste it over here.
Netflix and you can display.
So here is DF Netflix.
There is a lot of lot of data. If you want to see only the top records, you can go for that one as well.
This is from the CSV we can we have read out.
If you want to write only the top records, so you can write here TF Netflix.
dot had had will give you the top five records.
So there is top five records.
If you want to see the last five records, you can write here the netflix.pl. It will give you the last five records.
You want to check how many records are there? How many things are there? You can write here TF dot shape if you want to find out the number of rows and columns TF Netflix.
Netflix shape.
Will they tell you?
The number of records, rows and columns. So here is 7787 rows and 11 columns.
First is row, the second one is column.
We want to see.
OK, do up to this level.
So here we have read out from the Netflix. So to read we have write PD dot read CSV. We have write to the path and we have display. We have seen the top records return the first N rows the top five by default. If you write the two so it will show you the two. If you write 10 it will show you the 10. If you write 3 it will show you that.
By default if you write anything that is five and it will show you the last record. This one is the last return last and rows. The function return last and rows from the object based on the position and by default it will return the five.
This is the shape. This is a property shape.
And the shape property return you the number of rows and column return the tuple presenting the dimensity of the data frame.
OK, dimension do it quickly.
Done. Now let's see here if you want to see some.
A read out from the excel how you will do it. Similarly you will upload here.
Upload the this exams. Uh, let me go to your folder Andy.
You can upload this exams open.
Both.
Let me write here, dear.
Exam.
Is equal to.
Read.
Home.
Who be the bad?
From this particular path.
Mm-hmm. This is also the CS week.
Let me add something else. Some Excel file. This is also CSV one to this one. BBD sorry DFXR.
So you have to read same VD dot read CSV.
Because it's not Excel contain exam.
dot CSV exams dot CSV.
First let me know that error. This is exams.csv.
I will tell you the Excel also, but this is the CSV file. So let's read out from the CSV. So you have this thing here.
Let me put one excel file.
Sorry, one second properties.
This is also Excel CSV.
Properties.
OK, I will show you the Excel also. Let me just one download one Excel and show first we'll do what this level we have created this one.
Now if you want to see here the any specific columns, you have this this one gender, lunch, Math score, writing score.
All these things you have here O for example we want to see only the math score O how we'll do or we will go here DF exam.
And we want to see only the math score. So here is math score. So you can see a particular column. This is a particular column. You want to see the multiple columns. You can write this way.
DF Exam.
You want to see the multiple columns, for example you want to see here.
Is.
Launch.
Write the score.
So here it's.
London Math score.
Do it quickly. You can see one column, we can see the multiple columns. We can read out this way.
If you want to see the particular column.
So we have seen the comments column selection. If you want to see the row, let's see if you want to see the row wise row selection, you want to see the first row. So have you like DF exam?
dot ILOC 0.
This is your first row.
Gender and male.
You want to see?
EF Exam.
dot LOC.
0.
This is using label.
Let me do one more thing, one more time. I have run it.
Fine, I have run it here. I'm not use these columns and all. I will go here.
Gender.
This first you have got. We'll see here based on the label. This is based on the label.
So indexing this is.
You can filter the data also if you want to find out the let's say.
The DF exam.
I do want the math score.
EF Exam.
Let me just show you first the what all math scores we have. Here is 6773607885. I want to see more than 90, so let me write here.
Yeah.
And DF.
Exam.
DF exam.
That is cool.
Greater than 90.
This is not known as filtering, so we have filtered out the report based on the exams who have got the greater than 90 if we want only the 100% one control C.
Code here is control V we have right math score is equal to equal to 100.
With only 100.
Here it is.
This is those the records. Those guys go to the 100 in maps.
So we will see here these things. This is the filter. These are two filter examples.
So here we have seen the row selection based on the index here based on the label X is a group of rows, column by labels and this one is the filter and this one is also the filter example. Do it quickly.
Done this level.
Thanks. Now let's see here if you want to see the other stuff related to this one. Let's see if you want to see the all the information about this data set, we can write DF exam dot info.
So you'll find out the information. It's a it's gonna print a concise summary of data frame.
Let's print the methods information, what we have, all the things here, the gender, race, null, not null, not null, object, data type, all the details. We can also have one more.
Here this one going to generate the descriptive statics. So we will write here DF exam.
dot describe.
It will going to write here the total math score, reading score, writing score. Total count is 1000 records are here, meaning this one standard deviation, this one minimum is this much.
Maximum is this much and the 25% is 5650% is 6675% is 77. So you can see here the description of statics.
So describe will show you the statics description. You can see here using the describe.
If you want to see the data types, just the data types, so you can write here DF exam dot data types D types.
It will show you the data types. So we have the gender is object, rays, object, object, object. Math is for in 64 and 64 writing is for in 64.
Then if you want to remove a particular column from a data frame, you can use that row. Let me show you here if we write TF exam.
You will see here we have gender, race, lunch, test preparation.
All these things we have. For example, I want to remove this parental level of education. This one I want to remove.
Control C What I have done here is I have right here DF exam.
dot drop.
And I have right this one.
Parental level education.
And.
Access.
Is equal to 1.
And here is in place is equal to full. We have executed this one. Now after executing this one I have write TF exam.
So in place true means it will change here also, so that parental level is bound.
So you can do this. You can draw a particular column if you want to draw from the existing data frame using this way. Do it quickly.
So done. Now let's take a short break, just 25 minutes and we will come back. We will discuss about how we will take it from the Excel and then we will go for the next thing, the matplotlib and all.
So here is I'm putting one break so you guys can go and come back. So refresh yourself and come back.
The log.
This is break for all of you. Let's go and come back.
Hey, welcome back.
So we have seen up to this level. Let me just use the Excel sheet as well. We'll go here drive.
I will download the employees.selects.
Here it is.
Download.
So.
And I will upload it on your GitHub as well. So I will go here IML evening.
Here it is open terminal.
Git add all git commit hyphen name.
Employees.
dot XLX.
Good push.
I'll push it.
Well, go to the link. The link is already in chat.
You can see it here.
Here.
Inside the day #43, you will find out this employees.xlx as well.
This one you can download and upload it over here. We'll go here.
Right click.
Clear files.
Click on Upload.
And we have uploaded this employees.xlx.
Open.
Go up to this level quickly.
Now let's start. You have uploaded all of you, right? Let's do it quickly now. I'm writing here.
Cash reading from.
Excel X from Excel.
Reading from Excel.
Here is I'm going to use.
Import pandas.
As PD so I'm writing it from the scratch earlier thing I I need to run now so here is reading from exit. So we have import the pandas then we are going to write here DF is equal to PD.
dot read.
Excel and we will write the.
The path of Excel copy path. We have put the path over here control V.
So we have read out. We want to see DF. So here is your DF. There is ID, name, department, age, salary, experience, city. All these things are here you want to see.
The top five or top two or top three DF dot had. We want to see top three records. So here are the top three.
Here are the top three records, first three. You want to see the last three DF dot had. I have read the last three.
They're the last three.
And if you want to see any random rows, you can use the the sample. First we'll do up to this level quickly.
Done. None of you. None of this level.
If you want to see any random records, So how we'll do is code, we will let me fetch out.
Random.
5 rose.
From DF data frame.
We have IDF dot sample 5.
So it will show you any random 5 rows. It's not in any order 104, 101, 106, 108, 103.
You want to see all the things, data types, column, missing values, all those things, data types.
Missing values.
In one go. So what we will do DF dot in the.
It will give you all that information.
So here are the data types, missing values, number of columns, all the things you want to find out.
The number of rows and columns.
Find out number of rows.
Rows and columns.
What we'll do is we'll write here DF dot shape will give you the rows and column. This is the property, so we'll not write this small bracket after this, the parentheses after that.
If you want to see only the column name, so you can write here TF dot columns.
It will give you the only the column names. So here are all the columns. If you want to see only the data types, you can write DF dot types.
If you want only the data types, you can write DF dot D types.
Will give you the data types. Do it. So here the random here the all the information rows and columns. Here only the column here only the data types.
So let me show you a few more things quickly, then I will ask you an exercise. So here is.
DF dot.
Describe.
We have a dot describe. It will give you the statics about this.
So I have showed twice all those things with CSV, now with Excel. If you want to find out a specific column so you can write it this way. For example you want to find out DF.
Only the name. So here is the name.
The DF name so you will find out all the names. If you want two things or three things DF you want to find out the name.
We.
Call my salary.
Salary will do this thing. Say the name and salary. If you will see ADF describe we have employee ID KHX experience as well.
So here is code we will write here.
Name.
Age.
So if you want few columns you can do that.
So I have showed you two, I have showed you three. You can check four as well.
Do it quickly.
Done up to this level. So we have seen here describe we have seen the name, we have seen the two columns. How we'll find 3 columns if you want to check how we'll find. So filter we have seen in the CSV example also. Let's see here if we want to do the.
Filter based on some criteria. For example here let me go for filtering.
So for example here we see the DF. So DF have here the employee ID, name, salary, city and the all these things we have if we want to filter based on the department or based on the salary or based on the city. So we can do it if you want to see for example.
The employees record who have the salary more than 50,000. So how we'll do it? We will write here DF.
We are DF salary.
Yeah, we were late here. The salary is greater than.
Salary is greater than.
50,000.
And drink.
Salary.
Get it to them.
50K here is the question. So here is these are 60526555. These are the employee if you want to see the employees who belongs to Delhi.
So we won't write here control VDF. Here we write city.
12 to.
City will do, will do.
Early.
So.
From Delhi.
So here are the employees who are from Delhi 123. If you want to see in a particular department, you can write here DF.
Where's the department?
PPT.
Is it going to?
Let's say IT.
This is department.
What to say?
Double exception was occurred. The department. If we have a list, OK, there is 2T in department. That's why remove 1P from here. Let's see here. It's OK now.
Here is department ITIT. So we have seen here if you want to find or we want to do the filtering, we want to check where the salary is greater than this one, where the city is this, where the department is this. We can filter the data and it will give you the things.
We can write the combined also multiple condition. Also we can write for example DF. We have write these two condition together. Here the department is equal to 80.
Control C.
We have right this one DF deartment ID.
One condition.
This is the first condition and.
And the second condition DFCT is Delhi, Delhi and this one. So here is the AR from IT and from Delhi as well. So you can write the multiple condition as well.
Dude.
I'm done.
In turn up to this level, one of you, yes or no.
So the same thing we can also write using the queries way. For example this first one, this one the base on salary. Let me show you that.
We can write here DF dot query department is equal to I2.
So you will see here code. Let me write one more.
Don't see.
DF salary.
Salary greater than 50,000.
This is the query way to write the same thing. There is 1 too.
You want to show it?
Sort TF.
This one.
Salary.
Let here TF sort value by salary.
Yeah, this early voice shorter.
If you want in the reverse order descending.
You can write here.
dot.
Designment.
It's a link fault.
So here by default is ascending. We have write ascending fault.
So here the query is we have showed you the shorting, we have showed you those earlier thing that we have done.
We can use like in SQL Server the group by close or we can use group by.
Goodbye.
Celery.
Some.
Rupai Department.
Salary sum. So what I will write here DF group by department salary sum. So this will give you the department wide salary, HR this much, IT this much, sales this much. Do it quickly.
Done at this level, all of you, yes or no? Any doubt, question up to now?
Thanks. So we have done up to this level. We have seen the queries where we have seen the normal ways to remove the column. I also showed you already. Let me show you here also if you want to remove the column or we want to add a new column.
So to remove the column I have showed you here.
This one for.
the DFX arm drop. This is the removing the column. Similarly, we can write for this one as well if you want to remove a particular column.
So we will write here DF.
Draw.
Let me check what we have inside RDF. Hold on.
ID, name, deartment, age, salary, city for example age I want to drop so I have right here.
H.
H We have done this one now after dropping.
Related drop.
The column.
From data frame we have done this one. I will see the DF.
So age is no no longer there. If you want to add or you just find out the had just to check we have had of all three first three reports. So we'll see here ID name department and this one age is not here.
So this way we can drop the column. If you want to add a new column, for example we want to add the bonus, so we'll like DF bonus.
Dropping I have showed you. Now let me show you adding. So bonus is equal to. We want to create a column based on the salary. So for example the bonus is 15% of salary into.
0.15 S 15% of the cell we have added this one.
And now after adding this, let me write here TF dot had.
3.
So we'll see here the bonus. If you want to add the text, let's say the.
12% is the tax we have right DF, let's see.
Text.
Is equal to TF salary.
0.1212% is the tax. Here's the tax code. Then write here TF dot sample NE 3.
Or had or tell whatever you want to check. I have so example so the text as well. So do it quickly. I will drop the column here is add the column.
One new column.
Here the drop the column here add the column. There is also add the column do it.
What we have done here we have create, we have add or drop a age column and then we have shown you top three. Then we have add the bonus. I have showed you top three. Then I have added the text and I have showed you the random three. Do it.
Done. Now let me give you one exercise that you have to do after this. Let me put one one Excel sheet for you. Based on this you have to write the things.
So all those things you have to do in this section sheet. So here is let me download and put in your folder.
Download.
And I have put in new folder save.
Let me upload it as well.
Here we go. Terminal git add all git commit hyphen name.
Employee performance.
With push.
Where is the link?
And download from here this employee performance.
So before I will give you the exercise, let me show you one more thing here. Here we have done all these things.
First.
Let's see here code.
BF.
dot.
And largest.
5 salary.
So top five sell lead want to see where the top five sell lead.
Help.
Right, so I love you.
And let me give you the exercise.
Now exercise.
Number one download.
Employee.
Performance.
dot XLX.
Um.
GitHub #2.
Read out.
Read out excel file.
Data frame.
Find.
Random.
And.
Let's say 7.
Is it too random?
First.
And last records.
Number 10.
dot reply.
Employees by.
Performance.
My performance score.
It's written there in your Excel is like this so you can go this way.
Find out.
Oh.
Perform.
Bird.
One more call up.
Bonus.
This on.
Is equal though.
10% of.
So this much you have to do fine. So link I have already pasted in the chat as well. So download employee performance XLX read out excel file in data frame in data frame DF you can give any name.
Find out find 2 random two first and last record. Find out two random first and last record. Sort employs by performance score. Find out top three performers.
Performance and add one more column bonus based on salary. Bonus is equal to 10% of the salary. This one we have to do. So all these things I already have told you many many times and today also we have done this.
So you got time to start. Now you will do it. It will take hardly 10 to 15 minutes. So I'm giving you 15 minutes, dude.
Done all of you. Do you want to show any of you?
Hello have you done any of you want to show or should I show you the solution?
Any of you want to show?
No one see.
Actually, you should do it.
But I don't know why you are not able to do it. Let me just show you the solution.
So what we'll do is we will go here.
Upload.
We'll upload the employee performance open.
So I have downloaded and uploaded read out Excel from the data frame the first one.
Read out Excel.
From the date of it.
Dear.
PF performance.
PD read consent employee performance and here is TF.
Performance.
None.
We have done this one, so we have read out in the data frame.
This is the first one. The first question is answered.
The second one is find out random first last.
Control me.
Tour and.
Oh, here it is.
DF dot.
Random 2.
You have performance.
Totally done too.
So random tools we want for that we have to write sample.
So it is random too. The second one is we want to 1st for first we can use.
Had.
dot had to.
Then the third one.
We want to find out.
EF Performance.
dot TL2.
Last book. This will show you the last book.
Do it quickly. We have read out. We have find out the random. We have find out the head. We have find out the tail.
Done. This second one is also answered. The third one is short employee by performance score. We'll see.
Here is short employee by performance score.
Here it is.
DF.
Performance dot short values by performance score.
So this is the short employees by performance score 7075 and so on. If you want in descending this one as well so you can write the same thing and.
Coma.
Ascending is called to force.
Ascending false means this is descending. This is descending. So I have asked you short employees by performance score. So if you want to short by default the short means the ascending order, but I have showed you here the descending as well.
The next is.
Find out the Uh top three performer.
Here it is.
Find out top three performer that I showed you. You have write DF performance dot enlargest three based on the performance score.
So here are three top three performer.
This is 959288 is up 3.
The test.
Do it quickly.
Done. Now let's see the next one is.
But I have lost card one more column based on salary.
I said that one as well.
Bored.
12B.
Add one more column base one salad so we'll write here DF.
Performance bonus DF performance bonus is 10% of the salary. We have done this one we have added. Now you can check DF performance dot head.
So just see five and you will see here the bonus also here. So 10 percent 5504 thousand 545 thousand 4565 six 4400.
40,000 is 4000, 48,000 is 4800, sixty 5000 is 6510 percent is the policy.
Good as well.
So here I have given you the answer of all the question that I have asked you to do. First we have read out the data from Excel sheet and we have display the DF performance. This one is here.
Now we have showed you the random 2 using the sample. Then I have showed you the top two using the hat. Then I have showed you the.
Last two using the tail and then I have showed you the performance short by the performance score. So this is in ascending order. So here the 70757685 and I have showed you one more using the descending order. So here it is descending order.
Order 95928885 and so on. Then we have shown you the top three, top three out of performance 9592 and 88 the top three. Then we have seen the bonus.
This is the bonus. We have calculated the bonus and add that column. After adding that column we have displayed here do it.
Up to this level, I have showed you the solution of the exercise. Now let me show you a few more points here.
And these are other than the exercise. So exercise done up to this level, then few more points I'm showing few more.
Things.
Let's do a few more things here. Let's see.
Find the maximum performance, Max performance, minimum performance.
The four men's score.
DF Performance Max.
This is the maximum 95. You want to find out the minimum.
Find out the.
Wind.
Minimum performance score.
Do your performance mean?
And employees.
For department.
Here is DF performance department values count. So here is in ID we have four, HR we have three, sales we have 3.
Let's say the group by department wise salary.
Average here it is department.
Average salary.
I learned.
Tell really.
Yeah, the department wise I will.
Right. So IT have the highest you can see the sum department wise sum of salary.
I am up salary.
Do you have performance? Goodbye.
DF performance go to pipe.
Department salary sum.
So here is the salary submission.
Then do it.
Good quickly.
See here is one question in chat Toffi Kramath have asked Sir, after the sorting step and to find the top three, can I use DEF performance dot short values performance score ascending fault?
Had three or just choose enlargest is the best. See you can use that way also. But The thing is we will use enlargest because this is the better way and it is the faster way. You can use this one also. That's also correct. No, nothing wrong with that as well.
But you'll do then, uh, not just right? And that is shorter also.
You will not write that much.
Short, better, faster or you want to use that one also you can use that's fine.
Got it.
Anyone else? Any other doubt question? If you have you can ask.
I'm going to save this one for you.
File save.
Yeah.
File download.
Good.
I have downloaded this one. Now I'll go to your folder.
This is your folder. This is day #43. We have all the stuff here. Right click here open in terminal.
Did add all.
Get commit hyphen name.
Be.
43.
OK.
Lunch break.
Get push.
I have pushed this one to the or your GitHub.
So here we have seen the pandas. We have seen how we will read out the data from the Excel, how we have to create the, how we'll change the index, how we'll read out the data from Excel, how we'll read out the data from CSV.
How will do the basic functionality? How will find out the information? I will find out the describe data types and I will drop the columns. I will add the columns. I will do the basic things like find out the average maximum doing the.
Basic query is there. So those things we have seen after this break, this lunch break, we will join again at 2:30 and that time we will discuss about how we will clean the data.
Data cleaning. Uh.
And then we will go for the matplotlib as well. If you want to discuss any other thing, please let me know because this is the second last session. The last session will be the next Saturday. That will be the half day session and that day we will.
Or you can ask the thing if you want, but we can go for the recap of something that day as well. So by now.
If you have any doubt question up to now, you can ask, otherwise I will give you the break now. Anyone any question up to now?
Albert.
Fine then.
Let let's meet at 2:30. I'm going to stop sharing and I'm going to leave now. Let's meet at 2:30.
Find.
You.